# Nabi Postmortem
Introduction
-
This project took me a long time to complete, about 8 months alongside my placement at Playground Games, and is the largest project I've made so far. Overall, I'm happy with how it turned out and I have learned so much along the way. 

There are some jank bits and some parts I sorely wish I had done very differently, but you know what - I count that as a success, because it means I've learned something. If I thought everything was perfect and I did everything right all the time then, well, I probably haven't grown as a developer.

In this short postmortem, I'm going to bullet point the good, the bad and the ugly things about Nabi and discuss what I would do differently next time.

The Good
- 
- Data Driven: One of my core goals with Nabi was to make it as data driven as I could, and I think I've accomplished that. Using reflection, all systems and components can be defined in xml and custom types, collections and enums (+flags!) are supported.
- ECS: I had only done one project with an Entity Component System before, and it wasn't very well structured. I think this project is much better laid out and has a ton less coupling. 
- Testing: Before my placement at Playground, I had no experience with writing unit tests. But after seeing first hand how vital they, are a core goal of mine became to write tests for as many Nabi features as I could. 
- Rendering: Graphics programming is something I had never done before this project, and something I struggled with a lot to get working. However, I am happy with the result and think the architecture of my solution and resource pipeline is solid.
- Audio, Collision, Threading, User Input: Not much to say other than I think my solution architecture for these problems was good and I'm happy with how they turned out.

The Bad
- 
- Includes: In Nabi, I have various 'core' header files - eg "Core.h" and "EngineCore.h". These headers group commonly used includes together for convenience. However, they include some pretty big files - like the standard library and windows.h to name a couple. I'm don't quite know what I was thinking when I decided that this might be a good idea... I think I thought I could make Core.h a precompiled header and it would be solid. However, as I was making Nabi I discovered I needed more than just one core header and so it couldn't be precompiled (at least inside of the engine solution). But I just kept using it, resulting in the situation we have today - where tons of useless files are included all over the place - likely increasing complication time by quite a bit. Note - as of 19/08/23 I've fixed this (mostly...). 
- Testing: I know this is mentioned above in the 'good' section, but there are a lot of bad things about my tests as well... The main one being that some core features like input and rendering where really hard to write tests for. This was because they relied on core windows/directx features to be setup - something that I found hard to do in a test. So perhaps this means that my code was too tightly coupled, as it was hard to extract the exact logic I needed for the test. 

The Ugly
- 
- Reflection: I am happy with how the reflection system works from a functionality perspective, but under the hood there are a lot of hacks / janky things going on. To name just a couple - container reflection and custom type support. However, if I was to start again the two things I would change the most are: 1) How the reflection system uses strings and 2) How the FromString function works. <br>
The reflection system uses entt's hashed string. But when I created the system, I didn't really understand how this hashed string worked. So I do this strange pattern of passing around the hashed string or raw string, then using the raw string and hashing it again. This means two things: 1) Its less efficient, because we are dealing with strings rather than numbers, and 2) the hashed string doesn't actually own the raw string, it just has a pointer. So, we have to maintain a lookup of the raw strings. This was something I only realised much later, when I wasn't testing the xml parser inside one function where nothing could go out of scope. To fix this, I had to make a 'StringStore' as a band aid - really not great. I could of just done everything with the hashed string's id. ;_; <br>
The other thing is the FromString function. Primative types use a template specialisation for this. But for custom types, they don't. If I was to go back, having custom types use this specialisation as well would make the whole system a lot more elegant and powerful. 

Conclusion 
- 
As I said in the introduction, overall I am happy with how Nabi turned out. I had only done one project using an Entity Component System before, and it didn't turn out too well... However, I learned a ton doing it and so was keen to give this architecture another shot. And, well, I really like it! I don't think I would go back to an OOP approach again. ECS was great to work with, and combined with the data driven methodology I adopted debugging became a breeze. 

I'm looking forward to using Nabi later this year for my final university projects :) ggs c++