# Quick Start Guide
Hello future Ben! I hope you had a good hoilday in Korea. Remember to read **all** of this before you start making anything using Nabi in your final university year because you have probably forgotten everything...

Setting up Nabi
-
- See DemoCore.h's comment for the correct main.cpp syntax. Basically just populate the NabiMainParams/WinMainParams structs and call nabi::Main<>().
- We should have multiple projects. I might have given setting this up a go, but if not remember: Follow this tutorial https://youtu.be/Wt4dxDNmDA8, make sure Googletest is included on a solution wide level not project wide (hopefully this will mean the test results are logged correctly as well...), in project settings C++20/warnings as errors/multiprocessor complication/anything else from this video https://youtu.be/2NOgrpXks9A that you updated (check what the video says, check what you set up in Nabi and mirror it). <br> <br>  Also, because of the additional include directory stuff, you'll have to include all the same paths. There is a smart way to do this with a project schema I think, but if not just copy the contents of 'Additional Includes.txt" into the game solution's additional include directories:

Nabi Core Functionalities 
- 
- You (should!) remember most of the core functionality / you can look at the demo / example code. But remember...
 - UI Storage can be used to store data between ui scenes. See UIModule:://--- UI Storage ---. You make, update, get and clear stickies. The enums for these should be (see below in notes).


Demo / Examples 
- 
- There are demo/example-archive branches incase you need to run any of that stuff. To run any example component data (eg, collision) in the demo just go to the demo branch and change the entity files in demo_route.xml to the relevant paths. Also remember to remove the Asteroid and PlayerSystem in demo_systems.xml.
-  In the demo, you can: WSADEQ to move, arrow keys to rotate, M to change the text, O to spawn more 'asteroids' and P to delete them all. See Tests/Data/Demo. Collision is a little jank, idk what is going on, read to end but yeah it defo works.

Notes (read all)
- 
- If you have two solutions, remember to make a GameCore.h file which includes Core.h and is the pch.
- Our game namespaces will be: core::, ecs:: and ui:: (see the demo code). (At least for the start, there could be more later.)
- Have all entity groups / event calls etc as constexpr in a file. This can go in the same folder as...:
- Have a folder with a bunch of game constants files. Eg, asset type/collision mask/ui storage/audio enum file**s**!
- Turn off USE_CORE_FUNCTIONALITY_MULTITHREADING in Defines.h when you have no systems/are setting up the solution, otherwise the program runs too fast!!
- Remember to consider system update order. Eg Input->Update->Render.
- Remember that the camera's directions are inversed or something. If the player is moving one way and the camera the other, just invert the values in CameraSystem::UpdateCamera. 
- The functionality for turning world coords -> screen coords and vice versa currently isn't implemeted. The main thing this means is that we can't use mouse input for ui menus. Just use keys instead, this is actually kinda good because we can then super easily add controller support with the alt inputs. See CameraModule::[funcname] if you need to implement it.
-  Text is a little jank. As I'm writing this idk... I might look into it? But if not, remember that changing text content only works if the new content is the same length or greater than the previous. Just bear this in mind and don't have any games that require timers etc. Simple score counter like '1/3 collected' should be fine. If you need to fix it, ecs::TextModule::UpdateTextContent is the problem function. 
- Text cont: Score/text etc does work, just make sure that the starting text value is what its meant to be. Eg: In xml set the text value as 0/3, and ->1/3->2/3 etc works fine. Same with timers, set as 120 and counting down to 0 works fine. Might not want to do something like this though, as I think the my solution for updating the text is super slow.
- If you use sprite sheets for sprites, remember to change the resource name like you are for text (see core::DemoAssetBank::LoadText for an example of this). But tbh, just don't use sprite sheets other than for text. 
- Make sure the asset bank's UnloadAssets takes in the asset enum and just asserts if its not all. Also have **all** load functions use emplace_or_replace (I forgot to do this in DemoAssetBank for text (LoadText) but double check them all). 
- When we make a GameCore, can use m_WindowEventsListener to stop the game rendering when its minimised. might still want it to update thou? idk
- Remember to configure the shader properties correctly if you make any more (ie - ShaderType and OutputFile (location)). 
- Collision defo works. See above under "demo/examples" for how to verify this but they defo do. Idk what was going on in the demo scene. 

For The Future...
-
- If I use entt again: https://github.com/Green-Sky/imgui_entt_entity_editor